A complete Sherwood School District Student Body Handbook and the SHS Addendum
can be found on Sherwood High School’s webpage, at www.shs.sherwood.k12.or.us.
While the following excerpts cover many common items, it remains the student/parent’s
responsibility to review the handbooks, policies and expectations in their entirety. A
printed copy is available upon request.

The Sherwood High School Staff and School District believe that every student can learn and succeed. This success,
however, depends on staff, students and parents working together to provide a safe and encouraging learning environment.
Alcohol & Controlled Substances
The school district recognizes that the use/abuse of drugs and alcohol pose extremely serious health risks. Curriculum
taught in all of the schools in the district informs students that the abuse of drugs and alcohol is wrong and harmful.
Students found to be in possession, or under the influence of, drugs, alcohol, or paraphernalia (including, but not limited
to, e-cigarettes and other smoking devices) at school or any school event may be suspended, expelled, and/or referred to
Sherwood Police Department.
Attendance
Sherwood High School defines excused absences as those caused by: 1) Illness of the student; 2) Illness of immediate
family member; 3) Emergency situations; 4) Field trips and school-approved activities; 5) Medical/Dental appointments
(confirmation note required); 6) Other reasons deemed appropriate by school administrator prior to the date of absence.
Absences must be excused within 48 hours by calling the Sherwood High School Attendance Office at 503-825-5510.
Closed Campus
All students shall remain on the school grounds from the time they arrive in the morning until their regular dismissal time
at the end of the school day. All Juniors and Seniors may apply for an off campus lunch release permit. Any violation of
the permit may result revoking the permit and/or further disciplinary action. The following areas are off limits or restricted
to all students during the school day: All parking lots, playing fields, academic halls during lunch, and locker rooms
during class.
Cyberbullying/Harassment
“Cyberbullying” is the use of any electronic communication device to harass, intimidate or bully. Hazing, harassment,
intimidation, or cyberbullying by students or third parties toward students is strictly prohibited and shall not be tolerated.
Dance and School Functions
Students must have student I.D. cards or temporary replacement cards for admission to dances and other functions.
Students are not permitted to leave a dance and then return. Sherwood students may bring a guest to Homecoming
and Prom, if the proper paperwork is submitted and approved by administration of Sherwood High School and the
administration of the guest’s school. Guests must be a high school student and/or under the age of 21 and are
subject to administrative approval. Students who have been suspended, expelled, or otherwise barred from the
campus are not permitted to attend school functions. Student behavior and dancing must be appropriate or the
individual will be asked to leave the event. Portable Passive Breath Alcohol Tests may be administered at
extra-curricular activities such as dances, games, etc.
Dress and Grooming – Dress Code
The district’s dress code is established to promote appropriate grooming and hygiene, prevent disruption and avoid
safety hazards. The dress code applies while on school district property and at school/district sponsored events.
Inappropriate clothing and other adornments include, but are not limited to:
• Clothing that violates the “No Bare Zone” (please refer to the SHS Handbook Addendum).
• Items worn for the purpose of identifying gang membership or support.
• Items with symbols, words, or phrases that depict drugs, alcohol, or paraphernalia.
• Items used to promote or support the use of drugs, alcohol, or tobacco.

• Items with sexual innuendos, vulgarities, or obscenities.
• Items that promote behavior violating school/district conduct standards.
• Items that disrupt or directly interfere with the educational process
Administration may counsel with the student and/or parent, and possibly impose restrictions or consequences if
student violates SHS dress code.
Medications
All medications must be registered with the school. Contact the school office for additional information and forms.
Plagiarism
Plagiarism is taking credit for ideas and/or words that are not your own. It is a form of stealing. Students who plagiarize
will receive consequences ranging from a conference with teachers/administrators to expulsion.
Police Questioning
Should law enforcement officials find it necessary to question students during the school day or during periods of
extracurricular activities, the principal or designee will be present when possible. An effort will be made to notify the
parent/guardian/custodian of the situation.
Search and Seizure
The search of District and personal property, and seizure of unauthorized, illegal or unsafe materials will be used as a
proactive response to keep schools safe. Whenever possible, the inspection will be made with the consent of the student
and in his/her presence. Inspections will be based on the standard of reasonable suspicion, and always in the presence of at
least two adults. (This is the annual notification, please see the SHS Handbook Addendum for more information.)
Sportsmanship at Extra-Curricular Events
Both participants and spectators represent their school and their community at extra-curricular events. Students
representing Sherwood High School, as participants or spectators, are subject to the school discipline code. Discourteous
or harassing behaviors will not be tolerated and may lead to removal from the event and possible disciplinary action. All
spectators are expected to meet the OSAA expectations for crowd behavior. More information can be found at
www.osaa.org.
Student Actions Outside of School and On-Line
Student actions outside of school can result in disciplinary action if those actions materially and substantially interfere
with the conduct of the school program. This includes, but is not limited to, threatening or harassment of other students or
staff, implicating students in violation of the school’s athletic code, on-line harassment, or other activities that are
disruptive to the school environment.
Technology/Electronic Communication
Violation of the guidelines as outlined in the District’s Acceptable Use Policy may result in disciplinary action, including
the revocation of access to District networks. Student use of cell phones in the classroom is prohibited unless teacher
permission is given. Inappropriate cell phone use may result in disciplinary action.
Truancy
A student who is absent from school or from any class for more than 20 minutes of the period without permission will be
considered truant and will be subject to disciplinary action including detention, suspension, expulsion, ineligibility to
participate in athletics or other activities, and/or loss of driving privileges. The school may notify the Oregon Department
of Motor Vehicles when a student’s attendance becomes irregular. Students who fall below 92% attendance rate may be
subject to disciplinary action, including referral to Washington County Truancy Officers.
Visitor Policy
All visitors are to report directly to the main office and must wear a dated visitor badge for identification and must also
check out through the main office when leaving. Students not enrolled at Sherwood High School will not be permitted on
campus during the school day.

Please take home and review the handbook with your parent/guardian.